From my playing around with it here,
it seems like you cannot
transition to a parent state from
within a nested hierarchical state.
Does that sound right?
>> So the question was about
transitioning basically to any state,
whether it's a parent or
another state from each child state.
And the way you want to
do that is by using ids.
So for instance,
if I wanted to somehow transition from
a child state,
we'll take a look at this final one,
transition from this normal
state on reset go to,
I don't know, just paused or
something, it doesn't matter.
What you would do is you would specify
this date target via that hash,
so #paused.
And then you would give
this an id of paused,
so that's how you would do that.
The reason it is awkward is because
it's supposed to be awkward.
Ideally, you should have your logic and
your transitions so
that you basically stay in that parents
dates and you don't try to escape it.
You could think of it like
a parent-child relationship.
A child should never tell
an adult what to do, but
then adults can tell children what to do.
I don't know if that's a good analogy, but
hopefully that resonates with some people.
All right, so let's quickly go
over this exercise real quick.
The goal was to separate running
into nested or hierarchical states,
we wanted two states both normal and
overtime.
And so let's go ahead and add that here.
So we have an initial state of normal, and
then we have two child states
which is normal and overtime.
So we added the initial state.
It's going to start in that normal state.
And so ticking,
no matter which child state it is in,
that ticking behavior is still
going to do the same thing.
It's still going to increments the context
of the lapse by that interval and
that's exactly what we wanted to happen.
We also want toggle pause to
only happen in the normal state.
And adding a minute to only happen
in the normal state as well,
according to the read me.
So let's just try this out now.
So if we go to exercise 6, we'll see
that we're in the running.normal state.
And once we go overtime,
aha, so it's not going
overtime because we haven't
added that transition
that we always go to
the overtime states when
the elapsed time exceeds
the total duration.
So we could say always go, oops,
always go to the overtime
state on the condition
that context.elapsed is greater or
equal to context.duration.
So now let's try that out.
We're in the normal state and so
once that condition hits true,
now we're in the overtime state.
And it's going to keep decrementing or
incrementing that overall time,
which shows that negative number,
showing how far past the total duration
it is, and then we could reset.
Now also we do need to add
a few forbidden transitions.
For example, we don't want reset
to do anything in running.normal.
So this sort of goes to the original
question of how can we target
parent states.
You don't always need to do that.
Instead you could take a defensive
approach and say, for example,
on reset, undefined, so
that creates a forbidden transition.
So that even if we're in that running
state, the reset button isn't even there,
but it's not going to do
anything if it is clicked, so.
Also, you see that little bug there.
We're pausing it even though
we're in the overtime state.
So in the overtime state we
could say on PAUSED undefined.
And so now, sorry on TOGGLE undefined.
So basically the only thing you could do
in the overtime state is reset the timer.
And so when it goes here,
you can't pause it,
you can only reset it and
that's what that button is for.
So are there any questions about
nested hierarchical states and
that exercise, in general?
>> Could you just clarify,
again, for me a little bit so
about what you were saying earlier
about parents not taking orders
from their children,
which makes sense in real life [LAUGH]?
But so were you basically saying that you
shouldn't define transitions from child
states, basically?
And that those transitions should
always be controlled by the parents?
Could you just kind of expound or
clarify on that a little bit?
>> So the question was about just
whether children should defy
their parents and
transition directly to other states.
Again, the way to do that is,
you would have something like some event,
and then you would go to a specific state,
like paused for instance.
And then you would also give
this date an id of paused.
While you can certainly do that,
and there's actually nothing really
wrong with it, that becomes more of
a modeling problem where you want to
basically see what patterns you
could use to your advantage.
So think about the logic
in terms of business logic,
just human terms like what
should happen in each states.
Obviously, if you're in a specific
sub states and an event happens,
it's definitely well within the design
in the way that state charts work,
that you could have any sub states
go to any other parent states.
So honestly, that's really a matter
of opinion whether you want to
directly transition to other states or
not.
There's also other advanced techniques
such as defining final states, and
actually, I could show
you that real quick.
So let's say that we
have this overtime state,
this is actually a pretty good lesson.
So if we're in this overtime state,
let's say that we want to
define some logic that says,
after two seconds, we essentially
want to go to the reset state.
So basically when we reset,
we go back to idle, right?
We could do this.
We could specify the state via id or
the target state,
and give this an id of idle as well.
By the way, by default the id of
each state is a combination of,
let's call this timer,
is the combination of the machine's id and
the id of the state.
So this would be timer.idle, this might be
timer.running.normal, so etc, etc.
But anyway, we could do this.
We could say, After five seconds, and
then it automatically goes,
or sorry, let's reload that.
It should automatically go to the idle
state after a couple of seconds,
so one, two, and
then it goes back to idle.
Now there we're doing a direct transition
from overtime, that child state,
over to idle, but
there is a better way of doing this.
We could define a final state,
so let's call this timeOver.
Naming things is hard,
thankfully with state
machines you could just
name them whatever,
as long as it it makes
sense in a logical context.
So now after 2000 seconds,
we could go to that timeOver state and
then we could say that this
state is a final state.
Now this isn't gonna do
anything on its own, but
on the parent state, we could say onDone,
actually not over there.
We could say onDone,
which basically means,
if this parent state has reached
a final state of its children, so
if one of its children is in a final
state, then we want to go to idle.
Now notice I'm not using the hash here,
because this running state is
a sibling of this idle state, so
we don't even need this anymore.
And now we could,
let me reload running.normal,
after five seconds,
it's gonna go to overTime.
And then after a couple of seconds,
it's gonna go to idle.
So what's happening there is it's
going to that final state and
where's that final state,
this timeOver state.
And because it is in that final state,
this onDone transition gets called.
So it basically immediately
happens that way.
So that's one of the ways
that you can model it.
And it actually might be more clear.
Depending on the business logic and
application logic,
it might be more clear to just have
that explicit timeOver state and saying,
when my child states are done, so when it
reaches a final state, go to this date.
But again, it's up to you,
modeling is an art.
It's not a hard science, so yeah.